# hc12-aprs

This repo is an attempt to implement an APRS-like network using low cost HC-12 modules. These modules are available from ebay and are designed to operate in the UHF ISM band which overlaps with the 70cm amateur radio band. The RF transceivers used in these modules - or ICs from the same family - have been used in the new packet radio (NPR) project. The inspiration for this project is NPR, however this is not APRS based on NPR. As far as I know, NPR is a major overhaul of the existing packet radio systems. What I aim in this project is an augmentation of existing APRS networks utilising the aforesaid modules. In other words, data from this experiment have to be accessible from websites like aprs.fi

Conventional APRS relies on decades old technologies. The modulation is 1200 baud, 1200/2200 Hz two tone AFSK (aka Bell 202) over FM in the 2m band; HF APRS has a similar but slower modulation. This is an extemeley inefficient way, but was good for 1980s, 90s and early 2000s. These days, we have much better systems at our disposal. Software defined radios, dirt cheap RF modules, software and internet are now part of a modern radio amateur's shack/lab.

So what is the hardware ? The hardware for this project ought to be as simple as possible, so that beginners and novices can try something without getting overwhelmed with hardware and associated jargon. The ideas is to have an HC-12 module connected to an arduino (nano) which is then connected to a laptop/desktop/SBC. A GPS module can be used if the aim is to track assets. If time permits, ways to interface with Android phone using bluetooth or APRSdriod like tone generated will be implemented. 

Why am I doing this ? For fun ! I enjoy cycling, and often wished to have a mode of tracking my activities with APRS. Using a handheld with APRSdroid, getting a tracker or a handheld APRS radio are all ways to do it. But I wanted to try something else. Seeing these modules for sale in ebay gave me several ideas, so I am trying them ! Potential applications can include asset tracking and short messaging, but I do not wish to get into those - my idea is to have some fun experimenting with these modules :-) 
